(upbeat music)
All right, we're gonna build
another little app here that searches for a recipe
based on pizza or something like that.
And we are gonna attempt to display the data.
Now, instead of me showing you this perfect API
with perfect search, and perfect absolutely everything,
what I'm gonna do, is I'm gonna show you
all of the hurdles that you would usually hit
when you are attempting to use a new API.
Because this stuff can be frustrating
and I want to show you how you can sort of get around
some of these things, or if you know if you have to say,
okay, I can't use this API for this app.
So, let's go through that.
I'm gonna be using this recipepuppy.com,
and if we take a look here,
and the way that it works is that you go to the URL
and you pass an i, which is ingredients;
you pass a q, which is your query;
and you pass a p, which is your page.
Now you will see, on the homepage here,
they have additional parameters
that you can then pass via this
and that's actually pretty cool.
So, let's just talk about parameters real quick.
When you go to a URL, you sometimes see
these question mark on the end.
Even when we submit a form, we see those on the end.
Those are what are referred to as query params.
And if I were to break those down,
you'll see that we've got our API endpoint.
And then, query params always start with a question mark,
that's the part of the URL that has the query params on.
And then, each param, in our case we have i
and we have q, and we have p.
The first one will always, always, always start
with a question mark and then the additional ones
always have an ampersand in between them
and that's how you know you can pass
multiple parameters to a URL.
So, in our case, we're passing ingredients.
This is passing multiple, the fact that they used
a comma there is not a standard thing,
that is just how this API works.
This case is "q is omelet and p is equal to three.
That's how they handle pagination.
Again, these are never standard.
Every API implements them a little bit differently,
so you always have to go and read the docs.
So, my idea here is that we've got this index.html here,
by the way, I'm in the folder 72-CORS and Recipe.
And I've got this form here
that we can type something like pizza
and when I hit enter, it will search for pizza
and bring back a list of recipes,
as well as maybe some ingredients.
Some of them have thumbnails as well.
Oh, look at that.
(whistling)
That looks good.
(laughing)
You can, that you can go ahead and show them in there, okay.
So, let's get goin'.
I'm not gonna worry about the UI just yet
because there are a couple of things
that we're going to bump in to,
and I'm gonna show you how we can kinda get around them.
First thing we're gonna do, is let's just go
to our scripts console.log hey.
Make sure it's working.
It is working, good.
Now we're gonna make a function.
We'll mark it as async.
And that will just be fetchRecipes.
And that will take in a query.
And on page load, we'll just run fetchRecipes.
We'll look for pizza.
And then I'll say const response is equal to.
I guess we need our base URL here,
so let's go grab this.
Say const baseEndpoint,
and I'll take the stuff off the end there.
And then here, we'll go ahead and say
fetch the baseEndpoint
and then to pop the params on the end
you do question mark, the name of the param, q,
and the, in here we can just hard code pizza,
but in our case, we're going to interpolate
the variable that was passed in called query,
not pizza, and then when we fetchRecipes,
that should be populated.
Then we'll say const data is equal to,
oh, we gotta pop in await in front of this,
and then an await in front of this, res.json.
All right, so that's the very basics to fetch some data.
Let's go to our DevTools and see what we're working
with here.
Huh, access to fetch at recipepuppy api,
see look, it put the little thing on there,
from null has been blocked by a CORS policy.
No Access-Control-Allow-Origin header is present.
Ah, all kinds of blah blah blah blah blah,
and if you look at the network tab
you can click on all or you can filter for XHR.
And you see, there it is.
And response, it's not in there.
What happened?
Well, what happened is that the browser blocked it
because of something called CORS.
And what does CORS mean?
Well, CORS stands for cross origin resource sharing.
So let's break that down here.
CO means cross origin.
What are origins?
Well, we might have wesbos.com.
And we might have github.com.
These are both origins, right?
Domain names are origins.
And if I want to share data between the two,
let's get a little sweet little diagram going here.
By default you're not allowed to share data between origins.
You can share data from wesbos.com to wesbos.com/about.
That is allowed.
By default you're allowed to grab data
from other parts of your website.
But as soon as you go cross origin
from one domain name to another domain name,
then you start getting in trouble
because there's a bit of a security issue
in the browser is if I was logged into like my bank.com.
And I am running code on wesbos.com.
I shouldn't be able to run JavaScript
from wesbos.com and reach into bank.com.
That's a bit of a security issue.
So by default websites cannot talk to each other
from domain name to another domain name.
Now that is a pretty valid use case
where if I have wesbos.com
and I want to pull data from recipepuppy
or any other domain name and I wanna display the recipes
on wesbos.com I need to be able to talk
from recipepuppy to wesbos.com.
So what has to happen is that recipepuppy
has to implement something called a CORS policy.
And a CORS policy is something that happens
on the server.
It must happen on the server.
This is nothing you can do in the browser about this.
On the server there's a CORS policy
that says something like, okay, wesbos.com
is allowed to ask for data and we will return it.
That is safe.
So basically, recipepuppy.com has to say,
okay, these are the domain names
that are allowed to transfer data from one to another.
And it has to happen on the server
of the person that has the data.
So in order for us to
initially get involved with CORS
is you need an origin before you can go ahead and use it.
And if we take a look at the error that we have,
it says no Access-Control-Allow-Origin header is present
on the requested resource.
It says from the origin null.
And that's because we're running this
right off of the file access.
So the first thing you do when you see this issue
is you say okay,
I no longer can run this thing from the file.
I need to run it from a server.
So that's the first step that we're gonna do,
is we're gonna get a server up and running
so that we can at least see if that fixes it.
'cause in most cases it will.
So let's go into
our hyper-term here.
And let's get into this folder.
We're in 73-CORS in Recipes.
So I'm gonna go up a level.
I'm going to take a look at where I am.
I'm going to go into exercises and then into 73.
All right, now I need to use some sort of server.
This could be any server.
If you're familiar with browser sync,
that's what I use in my JavaScript 30 course,
you could just upload this to something like CodePen
if you wanted to do that as well.
In our case we're gonna use Parcel,
which is a nice little quick server.
So how we get Parcel up and running
is first we need to do npm init here.
And you can go ahead and just hit enter.
Oh, this is (voice muffled)
it can only contain url from the characters.
So we'll call this dogrecipes.
And then just hit enter for the rest of 'em.
That is fine.
And then we're gonna type npm install
parcel-bundler.
Once that has installed you should
see a package.json file in your folder.
There will also be a lock file.
And here's where we can go back and change our scripts
just like we did before.
We'll make this script called test.
Or sorry, we'll make, we'll make this script called start.
And to run it we'll simply just run parcel index.html.
All right, so when we now run
it will start it up.
So we can run npm run start
or just npm start will work.
It should open up localhost 1234.
So open this up.
Now we got another issue.
So this is issue number two.
regeneratorRuntime is not defined.
So this has nothing to do with CORS right now,
although, spoiler, we'll come back to CORS in just a second.
But regeneratorRuntime is not defined,
what does that mean?
It's likely that you might not have this issue,
and if you don't see this issue,
but you see another CORS issue then you can skip ahead
to that part because this will
hopefully be solved at some point.
But let me explain it to you if you do run into it
'cause I see this all the time.
So regeneratorRuntime is this thing called babel,
or babel, it's babel, but I say babel,
so whatever.
What babel does is, or maybe I do say babel now.
It takes your JavaScript with things like
async, await, and back ticks,
and these are things that are relatively new to JavaScript.
And sometimes you need to support browsers
that are old and don't know about
things like async functions, awaiting,
the fetch API or back ticks.
So what babel will do is it will transpile your code
from modern JavaScript into JavaScript
that is runnable on older browsers like maybe
an IE or an older Safari on a super old iPad
or something like that.
So, that will give you JavaScript that works the same way.
It's just being transpiled to the equivalent
in older JavaScript with callbacks and things like that.
Now, the weird thing about babel
is by default it doesn't,
it wants to compile async await,
even though in most cases you don't need to compile
async await because it's available in almost all browsers.
It has been for a few years.
So what we need to do is we need to tell babel
don't transpile async await because
I don't need that transpiled.
Because if you want to do async await
it makes you install plugins and it's a pain in the butt
and that's just something that you probably
won't have to deal with because
the tooling is getting much better.
The way that I get around that is I go my package.json,
and I will put in somewhere in here,
doesn't matter where, but if you do it at the very end
make sure you put a comma after this.
And you say there's a new property called browserslist.
So browsers with an s and browserlist is this package
that allows you to define which browsers
you are currently supporting.
If you take a look here you can do things
like greater than 1% usage, last one version,
maintained node, not dead, blackberry seven.
There's a huge list of things here,
and you can just write them in plain English
and it will convert them.
And that tells babel what to transpile
and what to just leave as is.
So the trick that I use here is you say browserslist.
It's an array, so square brackets.
And then in there, by the way,
you have to use double quotes in this because it's JSON.
And we just say last one chrome versions,
with an s on the end.
And what that odes is basically it tricks
babel into thinking that you are
supporting the latest and greatest,
and then there's no need to actually transpile it.
So as son as we did that you see
that the error is now gone.
There's a new error, which is fine,
we'll tackle that in just a second,
but the error is now gone.
One thing is if you do have issues,
quick trouble shooting is you can kill it,
and then open that up in your finder
and find this cache and dist folder
and just delete those.
That, sometimes settings get stuck in there,
and then you could just rerun npm start,
and that will, that will fire it up again.
So, problem number two, solved.
We just put browserslist in there.
You might not need to do that in the future.
Next, all right, we're back to the kind of the same error.
Access to fetch from origin localhost 1234 has been blocked
by a CORS policy.
Remember this one was null and this one is localhost 1234.
So sometimes this will fix our issue
because you can't just access it right from file.
That is the same issue with a lot of our webcam
and microphone access.
But in this case it look like the poor recipepuppy
is saying, nu-uh, not supposed to use this in the browser.
So if we take a look at it,
sometimes they'll offer solutions,
sometimes they'll say something like call back.
There's nothing on this page to suggest
that you should or should not use this with JavaScript.
So that's a bit of a bummer that they didn't tell us,
but you run into this all the time.
So, what are you to do if this CORS policy doesn't work?
Well, the idea with this CORS policy is that
you should only be using these from other things
that don't have CORS policies.
So what are you to do if they
don't have a CORS policy on it?
Because it's not like they are
explicitly blocking websites from accessing it,
it's just like it's likely that thy just haven't
implemented a CORS policy because I was just on the website,
taking a look, and it looks like they have an iPhone app.
And if you were using this from an iPhone
in like an iPhone app you're not restricted to CORS
because there is no multiple tabs open and things like that.
So the solution is that this would work
if you made the request from anything other than a browser.
If we go back to our little diagram that we have here,
you'll know that if we were to request this
from like a Node.js or php or ruby on rails
or if we were to request this from anything else
to that then it is totally allowed,
yes, yes, yes.
So the solution is that instead of going directly from,
let's do a new thing here,
instead of going from localhost to recipepuppy,
because that doesn't work,
we need to put something in between.
That's called a proxy.
And what a proxy is is that it basically,
localhost will send the data to the proxy,
and then the proxy will do server side make the request
to recipepuppy, and then recipepuppy will say,
oh, that's fine.
Sends the data back to the proxy,
and then the proxy sends it back to the localhost.
So you either have to build one of those yourself,
and that's, you would have to build like an entire server
that handled your request and you'd have to lock it down.
Or in some cases, where it's just something silly like this,
where there's no, there's no usernames,
so there's no passwords.
There's nothing sensitive being sent.
You can use what is being referred to as a CORS proxy
that people have provided to you
that you can just stick it in front of your url
and it will proxy the data for you.
So just go to your Google and type in CORS proxy.
And we'll take a look.
We'll scroll down here.
And the one that I found works the best
is this cors-anywhere.herokuapp.com.
If you click through to it,
see it's just like a text here.
The way that it works is you take this url,
cors-anywhere.herokuapp.com
and you paste it in front of your urls,
and what that will do is it will proxy that data for you.
So let me be absolutely clear,
you are sending your data through a random web server
that is controlled by some, who knows,
maybe a gargoyle or someone super scary.
So don't every use this for something that has
sensitive data like passwords or email
or login or anything like that.
If that's the case, you have to run your own proxy server.
You have to run your own server yourself,
but in the case of building these things,
especially when you're just trying to learn,
and it's getting in the way,
you can pop this url in front,
some random dude is gonna see
what recipes you're searching for,
but that's okay.
So this url in front of it,
we can even go a little bit further,
and put it in front, so const,
what did we call that?
Proxy
is equal to that.
And then just in front of this we will just pop the proxy
and now if we go to our url here,
no more error.
We should console.log the data.
Here we go.
Recipepuppy and there's our results.
Good, good, good.
So, let's,
now that we finally got the data working,
let's loop through these and show them
and based on what the user has searched for.
So this fetch recipes right here,
we are going to fire that.
Let's fire it on page load for pizza.
So maybe it will default this input value to pizza
so that matches up.
And then we will allow the user to type in
whatever they want and then we'll fetch that data.
So go back to our scripts here.
We'll make a function called a handleSubmit
as our event.
Then we'll grab our form.
Let's go up to the top here and select that.
Const form is equal to document.querySelector
form. what is on it?
Search.
And I'll say form.addEventListener.
We'll listen for the submit event.
And when that happens we will run the handleSubmit function.
We'll take our event and call .preventDefault on that.
And console.log event.currentTarget.
Event.target would do the same thing in this case
since the submit event doesn't bubble.
Beautiful.
Okay, and then if we say event.currentTarget.query,
is that it?
There we go.
.value.
Pizza, okay good.
Now, first thing we wanna do
is do some sort of loading screen because
we don't want the user searching
for many things over and over again,
so what we wanna do is we wanna be able to lock down
the ability to do this.
So there's a couple ways you could do that.
And probably the easiest is if you go
onto your input button and just type disabled.
That will stop the user from actually clicking it.
There's no visual difference there, actually.
So maybe we should add that.
So we'll say button that has a disabled attribute.
Say opacity 0.2.
There we go.
It's clearly disabled.
Another trick you can do is you can take a fieldset
and wrap all of your inputs in that fieldset
and you can put a disabled attribute on the fieldset itself,
and that will stop somebody from being able
to type in the box or click on the buttons as well,
which may be what you want to do.
Either one is totally fine.
Just make sure your user isn't firing off many requests
at one given time.
So go back to our scripts here.
And we'll find the button.
We need to select that button,
so we'll give that button a name of submit.
And we'll say const to form
const form is equal to, we'll just grab this.
Change that to form.
Say form.submit.disabled
is equal to true.
So turn, turn the form off.
Then we want to submit the search.
And in our case we will run fetchRecipes,
and we'll pass it the value of that box.
And then we need to go modify this fetchRecipes
of here and instead of just console logging it
we wanna return the data.
And here what we can do is we can say const recipes
is equal to await fetchRecipes.
And then we know that we have to mark this as async.
And what this will do is it will now fetchRecipes
is its own function.
We don't have to care about fetch or anything like that.
We just know that this function
will return to us some recipes when it's done.
And we should be able to console.log
the recipes,
and let's move this console.log up here
so we know that it's actually searching.
It's giving me a red.
Form is already declared in the upper scope.
Oh yeah, you're right.
So we shouldn't call that form.
We'll call that el.
El,
and el,
as for element.
All right, so now when I submit it,
it should disable this.
Oh we should enable it again,
so turn it back on.
So turn that to false.
So if I search for chicken,
disables itself for a quick sec,
comes back with some recipes,
and then re-enables itself.
Okay, good.
Now we can make another function called displayRecipes
that takes in an array of recipes.
And let's just console.log
Creating HTML.
And here we'll call it.
So we'll call displayRecipes.
We'll pass it the recipes.
Now, the data, how do I pass it just the recipes, right?
'Cause we called this variable recipes.
But if I were to console.log the recipes,
you'll see that it's actually
the results what is what we want, right?
So we wanna pass the recipes.results,
we don't care about the title,
the version, the href, or anything else.
We just care about the results.
So we run this displayRecipes.
It's yelling at me because
this function is defined after it.
That's fine.
You can move it above if you're worried about that.
Now we're in here.
We can console.log them one more time.
Let's see, we've got everything here.
Those are all of 'em.
Now we can loop over each one.
So, say, const
html is equal to recipes.map,
and we've got a recipe.
And then for each one we will return a div.
And in each of those divs we'll have h2
that has the recipe.title in it.
So wrap that in curly brackets,
put a dollar sign, then we also need a paragraph
that explains it.
Oh I deleted my console.log.
Oh there we go.
I can see it here.
Results.
What else is in here?
Ingredients.
Okay, so we'll put the ingredients in there.
And then some of them have a thumbnail.
That one has a thumbnail.
So we need to have a little conditional in here.
So we'll say, if there is a recipe thumbnail
we can either do the question mark like that
or we can use the and and hack.
If that is true, then return an image tag
where the source is equal to recipe.thumbnail,
and the alt is gonna be equal to,
we'll put that to the recipe title.
So this is a little bit confusing,
but you can nest template tags inside of template tags
infinitely long.
So what we did here is we have one template tag,
and inside of that template tag you can run JavaScript logic
and also return another template tag,
which in turn will have template tags inside of them.
So kind of interesting there.
It's pretty handy.
We should be able to console.log this html now.
Go ahead and submit that.
You see for each thing that comes back you get a div,
barbecue chicken, pizza, ranch dressing, salt.
Looks good.
Maybe we'll put a class on here.
And then let's go to our index.html
and let's make a recipes div.
And in that we'll put a grid of recipes.
So we'll go up back to our JavaScript,
go to the top.
We'll say recipes.
Element or maybe recipesGrid.
SQL querySelector .recipes.
And we'll go here and we'll say recipesGrid.innerHTML
is equal to html and we're gonna join it on nothing,
as if we didn't join it that would put a comma
between each of the elements.
So now if I search, boom.
Looks like what happened is each one we created a div,
which had a class of recipe.
We got h2 paragraph and then some of them have images.
There was a little thing here.
A cookie associated with a cross-site blah blah blah
as Chrome now only delivers cookies for cross-site requests
if they are set with SameSite=None and Secure.
You can review, that's totally fine.
Don't worry about that.
That's just for developers to know about things.
This is because people are reusing them
to do cross-site tracking
and that's how email open pixels work and stuff.
So ignore that.
Totally fine.
Looks like these are working well.
One thing we could do is just
write a little bit of CSS here.
So .recipes.
display grid,
grid-template columns
repeat auto-fit, fill maybe?
Min, max, minimum 200px, max 1fr.
Looking good.
We will say each recipe.
We'll put a gap on here,
so grid, gap, 20px.
Each recipe maybe has a border, 1px
solid rgba.
Lookin' good.
Put a little bit of padding,
20px on that.
Beautiful.
Oh last thing we forgot to do is the actually linking to it.
So if we take a look at the recipes that come back,
they all have a href on it.
So go back here and you can make a button,
or not a button, a link.
In this case it is a link, so a.
Href is equal to recipe.href.
And then we just say view Recipe.
Beautiful.
I like it.
Obviously you could add a little bit more CSS
to make that look better.
But I think that works well for us.
The only other thing is it's not loading on page load.
So why is that?
Because right now
oh, on page load we're just fetching them
and returning the data.
And in our case we want to basically run this right here.
So maybe this logic is too heavily tied to the submit event
because right now I can't just run that on page load
unless I were to fake a submit event.
So what we could do here is we'll make another function.
Make it async function.
We'll call it fetchAndDisplay
based on the search term.
What did we call that up here?
We'll call it query, keep it the same.
And I'm gonna take everything from here
and paste it in here.
And then in our handleSubmit we're just
going to run fetchAndDisplay.
And we'll pass it a form.query.value.
And then back in our fetchAndDisplay
we'll just switch this out with the query.
It gets passed in.
The last thing is that now that
we move this to another function
we no longer have access to our el here.
And that would then need to be either globally scoped
because there's only one element,
or passed along.
In our case we actually did globally scope the form here.
So we can change this
form
there.
Now on page load it's still not running.
That's because we haven't run fetchAndDisplay
on page load.
So we change that out.
Say on page load run it with pizza.
There we go, now it's running on page load.
I should be able to type in burgers.
And it's working.
Good, good, good.
So that's the very basics.
What would be cool is if you could then
take it a little bit further and use this ingredients.
So people could even very basic just have an input box
where people could put comma delimited ingredients
and it would pass that along for the ride.
At a hard level I would say maybe make a list of ingredients
that are check boxes and have users check and uncheck
the ones that they're interested in passing along.
That would be pretty fun to do.
So that's the first example here.
Let's jump into a more ajax examples.